st. spot is a new addition to the norlin
Saints offensive playbook and because of
that I can't really decide whether or
not I like one of these setups over the
other all I know is that I have a man
set up and a zone set up now this is
going to be a play that you're going to
completely add to your scheme after
you've run Saints about shake enough and
know what your opponent's going to do
whether they're running although
coverage man or zone coverage so first
let's break down man what we're going to
do is motion acts on the whip route
across the formation and unlike other
whip roads in the game this one will not
flip it will instead become a snapback
wipro that's going to break to the
outside and then jet back over the
middle this is going to get really nice
separation against his man coverage now
the man's switch between the whip and
the drag are going to allow us to throw
either of those hot against the blitz
now of course it doesn't mean that you
can't throw other roads as well you're
still going to be able to throw to
either corner row a which is the tight
end gets really nice separation against
man as corner owns always do or if it's
a pretty soft man coverage with no heat
what we can do then is wait a little
extra and hit Y on the inside zero this
row it has the potential to beat his man
twice once off the line for a pass in
the seam or we can wait until he breaks
to the sideline now sooner or later your
opponent's going to want to throw in a
few zones of course so likely dropping
eight guys in the coverage for them
likely in zone and the rest of them will
be in man so it's going to be tough to
throw those corners and those whips
underneath with all that coverage but
with the coverage underneath what that's
going to do is it's going to allow us to
log it up to the running back wide open
as you can see right here we're facing
that man zone defense combination they
forget to cover over top and we can
against a soft coverage wait a little
bit and be able to hit that running back
deep now when it comes to zone we're
actually going to motion the wide
receiver on the sea route across the
formation and simply just streak the
running back and left receiver down the
seams also again zone coverage the spot
concept is great you can throw the check
down
spot underneath to the B receiver or you
can throw the post over top of the spot
road as it's going to hold the hook
zones over the middle and with the post
breaking over the middle that's going to
pull center field coverage over to the
post so now with the running back on a
street crowd out of the backfield the
post is going to pull away coverage in
center field deep while the spot pulls
down hook zones leaving actually a
really nice window to throw down the
seams again zone coverage to the running
back out of the backfield but of course
that's not it you can also hit the tight
end on the corner in certain scenarios
where of course there's no purple zone
on the field all we want to do is pass
lead so we don't lead them into coverage
just another great play to round out
such a great formation in the New
Orleans Saints playbook for men 15 again
having great success with this so far